Deprecating user API key from docs (#6358)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/user-tokens.md

pagination_next: "docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens"

> ---

Reviewer: Should we change the file name to be pat.md or something more relevant now?

Author: I opted not too because technically it's about a user token type and redirects would be difficult since we want users to find the migration section and redirects to that won't work

# Account-scoped personal access tokens <Lifecycle status="team,enterprise"/>

:::Warning

User API tokens have been deprecated and will no longer work. [Migrate](#migrate-from-user-api-keys-to-personal-access-tokens) to personal access tokens to resume services.

:::

> Each dbt Cloud user with a [Developer license](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users) can create a new personal access token (PAT) to access the dbt Cloud API and dbt Cloud CLI. This token can execute queries against the dbt Cloud API on the user's behalf. To access dbt Cloud APIs and resources on behalf of the _account_, we recommend using service Tokens instead. Learn more about [which token type you should use](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication#which-token-type-should-you-use) to understand the token differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each dbt Cloud user with a [Developer license](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users) can create a new personal access token (PAT) to access the dbt Cloud API and dbt Cloud CLI. This token can execute queries against the dbt Cloud API on the user's behalf. To access dbt Cloud APIs and resources on behalf of the _account_, we recommend using service tokens instead. Learn more about [which token type you should use](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication#which-token-type-should-you-use) to understand the token differences.
```

PATs inherit the permissions of the user that created them. For example, if a developer-licensed user with Project Admin role access to specific projects creates a PAT, the token will get the Project Admin role with access to the same projects as the user. These tokens are also account-specific, so if a user has access to more than one dbt Cloud account with the same email address, they need to create a unique PAT for each one of these accounts. 

> ## Create a personal access token

Reviewer: I recommend we identify this here or in the paragraph below this header.
```suggestion
## Create a personal access token (PAT)
```

Author: Won't the () make it difficult to link to? I can't recall if that hinders it

Creating an account scoped PAT requires only a few steps.
1. Navigate to your **Account Settings**, expand **API tokens** and click **Personal tokens**.
2. Click **Create personal access token**.
3. Give the token a descriptive name and click **Save**. 

> Copy the token prior to closing the window. _It will not be available after and you will have to create a new token if you lose it._ 

Reviewer: Can this be step #4?

> Copy the token prior to closing the window. _It will not be available after and you will have to create a new token if you lose it._ 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Copy the token before closing the window. _It will not be available after, and you will have to create a new token if you lose it._ 
```

> ### Rotate your tokens

Author: ```suggestion
```

> It's recommended that you rotate your PATs at regular intervals for security purposes. To rotate your PATs, create a new token and, once it's in place, delete the old token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended that you regularly rotate your PATs to maintain robust security. To rotate your PATs, create a new token and, once it's in place, delete the old token.
```

> It's recommended that you rotate your PATs at regular intervals for security purposes. To rotate your PATs, create a new token and, once it's in place, delete the old token.

Author: "Robust security" might oversell it
```suggestion
To maintain best security practices, it's recommended that you regularly rotate your PATs. To do so, create a new token and delete the old one once it's in place.
```

> To delete a token:

Reviewer: This might be easier for folks to find if we elevate it to an L2. Whatever you decide for creating a PAT, you should do here identifying the acronym in the header or 1st paragraph.

```suggestion
## Delete a personal access token (PAT)

If you're rotating your tokens, make sure to create a new token before deleting the old one.

To delete a PAT:
```

Author: We define (PAT) in the headers above, it might be a little overkill here. Makes the link simpler to leave it off

:::

Each dbt Cloud user with a [Developer license](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users) can create a new personal access token (PAT) to access the dbt Cloud API and dbt Cloud CLI. This token can execute queries against the dbt Cloud API on the user's behalf. To access dbt Cloud APIs and resources on behalf of the _account_, we recommend using service tokens instead. Learn more about [which token type you should use](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication#which-token-type-should-you-use) to understand the token differences.

PATs inherit the permissions of the user that created them. For example, if a developer-licensed user with Project Admin role access to specific projects creates a PAT, the token will get the Project Admin role with access to the same projects as the user. These tokens are also account-specific, so if a user has access to more than one dbt Cloud account with the same email address, they need to create a unique PAT for each one of these accounts. 

## Create a personal access token

> Creating an account scoped PAT requires only a few steps.

Author: ```suggestion
Creating an account-scoped personal access token (PAT) requires only a few steps.
```

:::

> ### Using the personal access tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using personal access tokens
```

Author: They can have multiple tokens

3. Create and copy the new PAT to replace the old user API key. 

> 4. Ensure that you’re using a PAT only where it's needed. For any flows that requires a service account, please use a service token. Read the section below for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Ensure that you’re using a PAT only where it's needed. For flows that require a service account, please use a service token. 
```
